# Predicting-Earning-Surprises
In this project, 4 peers and I attempted to understand the effects of earning surprises on stock prices. Ultimately, our goal was to test the theory that earning surprise was positively correlated to immediate changes in stock price.

Grade Earned: High Distinction

Throughout the first two years of a Bachelor of Data Science (Advanced) at Monash students complete 4 data-driven group projects on their choice of provided topics. This was my second of these 4 projects and was completed in Year 1 Semester 2 of my degree.

The main skill I demonstrated in this project was data cleaning. At the start of the project, the data arrived in a format incredibly unfriendly to modelling in Python and needed extensive cleaning and wrangling before I could pass it on to my teammates for use. To a lesser extent, I developed my skills in communicating conclusions and modelling as part of the scientific process.

After all the research conducted on the topic, the project had an inconclusive stance on the hypothesis. This result is largely due to the duality in findings. Firstly, the hypothesis infers that there is at least some linear relationship between SUE score and price change, however, there were no findings to support this. The low model R squared scores, near zero correlations and incoherent shape of the data all suggest that there was no linear relationship between SUE score and price change. Therefore, we can’t say that the hypothesis is true, however, due to the success of the kNN classifier’s high accuracy scores we also can’t say it’s false. The kNN classifier indicated that there may be some predictable way to forecast price change using SUE score thus indicating that there may be some validity to the hypothesis. Furthermore, the kNN classifier couldn’t be used as outright proof for the hypothesis as the relationship it proved wasn’t necessarily the relationship outlined in the hypothesis. Resultantly, the chance of it being spurious was too high for it to be considered a rigorous argument.

Overall, this result makes sense as financial markets are very complex, making them unpredictable. Firstly, company stock prices and the stock market as a whole can be affected by world events such as war and civil unrest, natural disasters and disease. These effects often occur in a chain reaction. Secondly, inflation cannot be avoided. To combat inflation, the Federal Reserve frequently modifies interest rates, which is one of the more predictable consequences of the stock market. Historically, low inflation has strongly correlated negatively with valuations. Third, a company's stocks frequently follow the market and their sector or other related industries. Much of a stock’s movement is influenced by the interaction of broader market and industry movements. Finally, changes in exchange rates can raise or lower the cost of doing business in a nation, which can have an impact on the stock prices of companies conducting business overseas. 

A way to conduct more advanced research on this topic would be to look at it on a more case-by-case basis. This may look like investigating specific companies or periods to look for patterns in correlation. As explained, financial markets are very complex and therefore, looking at the problem through a more specific lens may provide insight into how exogenous factors impact the hypothesis.
